I'm John Skinner and this supports
Chapter four
tailing for a variety of species from
surf kayak and boat
we're buck tailing calm relatively
shallow surf in this video we'll be
using the bottom buck tail which is a
three quarter ounce homemade and a strip
of number fifty uncle Josh poor
frightened here's a look at the
retrieves feed and you'll notice that it
varies somewhat because even though it's
pretty calm I still have some waves
pushing it at me sometimes so at that
point you'll see me speed up and then
I'll slow down again and basically I'm
maintaining contact with the bucktail
I'm trying to do a slow to moderate
retrieve swim it you know just a little
bit up off the bottom this is a Long
Island South Shore Ocean Beach the
predominant baitfish right now is sand
eels and even though in this situation a
lot of people will throw sand eel
imitators such as diamond jig tsunami
sand eels needle fish and so forth buck
tails still work very well when sand
eels are the predominant bait the water
is not very deep here and I'm guessing
them throwing into about six feet of
water and as you can see it's very calm
so you know these can be challenging
conditions to get fish to hit in terms
of choice of bucktail with it being
relatively shallow and income I'm going
with a three-quarter ounce bottle and
it's actually one of my home aids which
I put hackle feathers on the hook shank
and that bulks it out a little bit so
it's even a little bit more of a bulky
3/4 ounce bottle and you would normally
get in the store and this is pretty
important because that bulk it cuts down
on the casting distance but it enables
the bucktail to ride a little bit higher
in the water column on the slow to
moderate retrieve that I want to use now
even though this is a homemade buck tail
that doesn't mean that the store BOTS
wouldn't work here they certainly would
my point is that if I was digging into
my surf bag to look for a buck tail to
use in this situation I would go for one
that has a little bit more hair on it
because I'm trying to keep it up a
little bit higher in these calm
conditions if I didn't have any bulky
bucktails I could go down on the weight
a little bit or another thing I could do
is go up on the pork rind strip I'm
using a strip of number 50 uncle Josh
pork rind and that's a strip that I use
quite a bit but if I went up to a number
70 which is just a little bit bigger
that would also enable the bucktail to
ride a little bit higher you know these
are all kind of the intricacies that go
into buff tailing in a matter of
choosing the correct box he'll weight
how much hair is on that buck tail
what kind of a trailer or whether it's a
pork rind and the size of the pork rind
or whether you're using something like
one of the soft plastic grub tails those
curly tails all of these things affect
the way the bucktail swim okay you can
see I'm kind of straightening that jig
out after that fish and the pork loin
gets tangled in there a little bit I
just want to get everything back in
order before I make another cast this is
the same stretch of beach that I shot
the tsunami Sandile video on and a
couple people had asked me how I would
work a buck tail in this area so I
figured I'd put this video together and
you can see I've actually quite similar
conditions to that video if you happen
to see it except that day was overcast
and this is a nice clear day but it's
pretty early in the morning so it's
pretty good time to be fishing as with
the tsunami Sandile video there was
nobody fishing on this stretch of beach
when I was going by and again I saw just
a few cormorants those duck like birds
working in clothes picking up some bait
so I decided to get out make a couple
casts and sure enough right away I
started hooking up so definitely those
cormorants are worth watching and a lot
of times people focus on the gulls but
those duck Birds working and picking a
bait now very good indicators of where
the fish might be and this is the same
app that I use in many of my surf videos
a nine-foot medium action rod this is
built
on a Lamech laughs GSP 121 L blankets a
10-footer the one foot cut off the butt
is advanced all 204 with 30 pound test
spiderwire stealth and I have about a 36
inch leader of 50 pound test
fluorocarbon I joined the fluorocarbon
to the braid with a barrel swivel and I
have a tactical anglers clip at the end
where I attach the lure so you might
notice the Sun hasn't moved very much
from that first cast and in fact I was
getting hit about every other cast here
despite the fact it was really a blue
board a very calm conditions and nobody
paying attention to the stretch of beach
fishing was pretty good unfortunately
after this next fish here I had to go to
work so I couldn't stay on it but I
think if I'd had more time I correctable
pretty good score
you
I crushed the Barb's of my bucktail so
situation like this where the fish gets
it in its mouth a little bit deeper just
back it right off it comes right out
easily and you'll never lose a fish due
to a crush barb as long as you keep a
bend in the rod it's just a really good
thing to do okay I hope you found this
useful and thanks for watching